### Ten Principles of Economics
> 
### 1. People face tradeoffs.
####  人们面临权衡取舍
- 鱼与熊掌不可兼得
- there's no such thing as a free lunch.
- Guns <——> Butter   GDP <——> Environment   Work <——> Leisure time
#### Efficiency v. Equity
- **Efficiency** means society gets **the most** that it can from its scarce resources.
- **Equity** means the benefits of those resources are distributed **fairly** among the members of society.
### 2. The cost of something is what you give up to get it.
#### 某东西的成本就是为得到它所放弃的东西。
#### opportunity cost
- The **opportunity cost** of an item is what you give up to obtain that item.
### 3. Rational people think at the margin.
#### 理性人考虑边际量
- **Rational People**: People who systematically and purposefully do the best they can to achieve their objectives.
- **Marginal changes** are small, incremental adjustments to an existing plan of action.
- People make decisions by comparing **costs and benefits at the margin**.
### 4. People respond to incentives.
#### 人们会对激励做出反应
- When the price of pork rises......
- How does a seat belt law affect auto safety?
### 5. Trade can make everyone better off.
#### 贸易能使每个人状况变好
- Trade allows people to specialize in what they do best.
### 6. Markets are usually a good way to organize economic activity.
#### 市场通常是组织经济活动的一种好方法
- A **market economy** is an economy that allocates resources through the **decentralized** decisions of many **firms** and **households** as they interact in markets for goods and services.
- 看不见的手。—— Adam Smith 《国富论》
### 7. Governments can sometimes improve market outcomes.
#### 政府有时能改善市场结果
- why do we need government?
- Invisible hand can work its magic only if the government enforces the **rules** and maintains the **institutions** that are key to a market economy.
#### Government can intervene to promote **efficiency** and **equity**.
#### Efficiency
- **Market failure** occurs when the market fails to allocate resources efficiently.
- **Externality** is the impact of one person or firm's actions on the well-being of a bystander.
- **Market power** is the ability of a single person or firm to unduly influence market prices.
#### Equity
- The invisible hand does not ensure that everyone has sufficient food, decent clothing, and adequate healthcare.
#### 5,6,7  Mixed Economy
### 8. The standard of living depends on a country's production.
#### 一国的生活水平取决于它生产物品与劳务的能力
- Almost all variations in living standards are explained by differences in countries' **productivities**.
- **Productivity** is the amount of goods and services produced from each hour of a worker's time.
### 9. Prices rise when the government prints too much money.
#### 当政府发行了过多货币时，物价上升
- **Inflation** is an increase in the overall level of prices in the economy.
### 10. Society faces a short-run tradeoff between inflation and unemployment.
#### 社会面临通货膨胀与失业之间的短期权衡取舍
- The **Phillips Curve** illustrates the tradeoff between inflation and unemployment.
#### 8,9,10 The forces and trends that affect how the economy as a whole works.
### Ten Principles of Economics
#### Even the most sophisticated economic analysis is built using the ten principles introduced here.
